So let's sum up what we've said
in this section about content and
content creation.
First of all, you've got to
really understand your user and
your user journey, right?
Not make assumptions about who you think
your users are and what they want,
that leads to dangerous consequences
cuz your assumptions are often wrong.
Secondly, you need to understand where
the content that you're creating
sits in the overall journey.
Are someone just discovering about you for
the first time or
are they returning for the 50th time?
Where does it sit in their experience
of grabbing attention through to,
making contact and purchasing,
through to post delivery etc.
And then be clear on what you want the
user to do, what are your calls to action?
What steps are you gonna make?
Have you simplified that down to a simple
clear ask that anyone can complete?
And then you need to build a value
proposition around users and users needs,
so that they understand specifically how
it's gonna help them, how it's gonna
benefit them, and how you're gonna
go about delivering those benefits.
And then as you write your copy
you need to write it in a clear,
structured way that human.
The rule of thumb I use, right,
when it comes to writing copy is could I,
if I'm sitting in a coffee shop
with someone just chatting, right?
Could I say that copy out loud to them and
it not sound weird, right?
Too often the copy that we have
the answers users questions,
sounds so fake and it's not
conversational and it's not human.
Your copy has to be more human.
Okay, should we talk a little
bit about this as a sample site?
If anybody's got suggestions for
other sites they wanna look at,
then I'm more than happy to
talk about those as well.
But it's always good to look at our kinda
practical example of this and see how some
of those principles we've talked about so
far apply in the real world.
So, let's talk about this page.
Advance your skills with in-depth,
modern front-end engineering courses.
Great, couldn't ask for
better strapline than that, right?
It's got a very obvious benefit which
is in bigger text, advance your skills.
Brilliant, very clear how
it's gonna benefit people.
And it's also self actualization,
they call it, improving yourself
is one of the most attractive things for
people in developed Western
countries where their basic needs like
food and that shelter are dealt with.
So we love the idea of improving
ourselves, so great, strong strapline.
And then add to that,
the fact that it makes it clear,
well what the thing is, right?
So you can make a promise
like advance your skills but
if you're not also saying how
you're gonna deliver that and
through what mechanism,
then you haven't made things clear.
Front-end engineering courses, brilliant,
love it, can't fault that, great job.
Then we get into things
like calls to action.
Calls to action,
we've got a nice, simplified,
two sets of calls to action, right?
So there's not too many calls to action,
not too much stuff competing for
your attention.
But one of the problems, and I think
I might even touch on this later, so
apologies if I'm jumping
around a little bit.
One of the problems that they've just
fallen into here is that we've got
two calls to action that are actually
very similar to one another, right?
That it's not immediately clear
what the difference is between
browse our courses and
view learning paths is, right?
And when you have two calls to action
that are quite similar to one another,
then it can cause paralysis,
it can cause people not to choose or
they choose the wrong option that
gives them a false impression.
So it might be that having those two calls
to action isn't really necessary at this
point.
Maybe we take them into one or
the other to begin with and
then have a secondary one that
takes them on after that, so
that you can control
the journey a little bit more.
Because I mean,
there's some great examples there.
One of my all time favorites is Wikipedia,
right?
Wikipedia used to have a search
box on their website, and
then next to the search box they didn't
have one submit button they had two.
And the one submit button said search and
the other one said go.
What's the difference?
Now actually,
one would search all of Wikipedia for
whatever phrase that you just typed in.
The other would go to this page specific
to that particular phrase, right?
But that's a very confusing and
subtle difference that increases
people's cognitive load.
And we've got a similar thing here.
I'm sure the guys could
easily explain the difference
between the two, but
it shouldn't need explaining.
Now, then we've got some
different languages here which
basically it's a clever mix of features.
In other words, it's showing that you
have courses on these different subjects.
But at the same time,
it's a type of social proof actually.
It's kind of expert via association that
these are things that people recognize.
They might not have heard
the Frontend Masters brand, but
they have heard of node or react or
any of these other ones, so
it helps reassure them that the content
is relevant and appropriate to them.
And then they've completely
nailed the social proof
side of things by pulling in
testimonials straight from Twitter.
Which means you know that they're
real testimonials, right, and
that they're completely reliable.
So very good use of social proof there.
Join now and learn straight from the
experts who shape the modern web, okay?
Yeah, again, really a call to
action with a strong button.
But we are lacking some
objection handling here.
Because with this kind of thing there
are gonna be a lot of questions
that are associated and its going for
the join now, quite quickly.
Now admittedly, you've got a different
call to action that's going on up here.
But it might be good to take
some of the types of courses,
admittedly you're kind of showing
a bit of an overview here.
But have some content blocks showing some
different types of courses to give us
a feeling of all the different
content that's there.
You might wanna give
an indication of pricing, right?
Especially when you get to the Join Now,
right?
If I click on that what's gonna happen?
Will I suddenly be expected
to part with my credit card?
Here we go, so now we're getting
into the pricing at this point.
Well, perhaps that needs to be
brought up to the homepage, so
that there's a decision being made there.
Then we've got a load of fields
like you'd pretty much except, but
maybe that needs to be chunked,
broken down into a series of steps.
So it doesn't feel to like quite so
many overwhelming number of
fields that are available there.
There's some interesting stuff going on
here as well from a design perspective.
So, for example, getting someone to repeat
their password, isn't necessarily the best
way of doing it cause you're doubling
the amount of data entry they have to do.
Maybe you wanna instead just show them,
allow them to view their password
with the little toggle thing.
And that works very well because
it's reducing the amount of data
entry which on mobile devices
is particularly important.
And then the credit card stuff,
maybe we wanna move that off
on to a different page, right?
And the reason being is cuz it makes
the form feel more accessible and
less work involved in it.
And better still, that if they fill in
this information get to the point of
making a transaction and
then don't do it for whatever reason.
Because they've already submitted
the first part of the form we've got their
email address, which means that we can
send them a follow up saying we noticed
you didn't finish entering the data, is
there anything we can do to help, right?
And then finally, CAPTCHA is evil and
it should never be on a website and
I'd fight anyone who disagrees.
So, there you go, there's a little
bit about Frontend Masters.
Does anybody else want to share a site or
should we move on and
then maybe look at another site
a little bit further down the line?
Actually while if anybody wants to
recommend a site pop it into chat now.
But in the meantime,
I just wanna show you a nice example
of content blocks in action, right?
So this is Stripe's homepage which I love,
I think it's a beautifully designed one.
And, again, they do a lot right on this
site, I think it's worth pointing out.
So they've got a nice clear strap line
again, payment infrastructure for
the internet.
But notice how we're beginning
to get content blocks, heading,
small piece of copy, links, image.
And if we scroll down, heading,
piece of copy, link, image underneath.
Scroll down more, heading, block or
copy, link, sociated image.
They've even nested one content
block inside another in this, so
that's kind of one.
And then you've got these
two smaller ones inside.
So we've got image, heading, there'll
be a copy, link, done it again there.
And their whole page is built up
in this way, here it is again.
And notice how easy that is to scan and
how engaging it is.
Because if all I do is read the world's
most powerful and easy to API.
I know all I need to know
without having to read this, but
if I want that detail, I can read it.
And if I want even more detail, I can
click through to the documentations and
drill down into the detail of it.
This is good, engaging, well structured,
content that leads me through.
And notice, again, we've got value
proposition, social proof, all right?
Then we start to get into features,
fully integrated suite of products,
API, and
then more features again going on here.
So is it's a very well structured,
and then showing that they've
got the capacity to deal with it feature,
feature, feature.
What they are lacking is benefits,
they don't talk a lot about benefits.
And in some ways Frontend Masters
does a better job
at that in its value
proposition on the homepage.
>> What's your thought on those super long
sales funnel pages that go on and on and
finally end with a single call to action
button at the very bottom of the page?
>> Yeah, they're very interesting,
it's an old form
technique that predates
the internet by many, many years.
They are very effective for
a certain audience in a certain situation.
They work less well on the web,
I'm actually working for
a client right now that
uses that as a technique.
And what you can do is,
is you can combine kind of more modern
techniques with that to create
quite powerful solutions.
So the way that you normally do it
in that situation is you have what I
would call a standard
landing page to begin with.
Where you have value proposition,
summary of the offering, call to action,
benefits, features social proof.
But then it goes on into
the long-form stuff after that with
the call-to-action repeated multiple
times down the page in my experience,
with the various social proof
alongside the calls to action and
some objection handling.
That's one way of dealing with it.
My preference however, if it's
an organization that focuses on long form
marketing like that, is actually you
have a very condensed landing page
where the call to action is to sign up for
emails.
And then you drip feed them
the information that would have been in
the long form piece over
a series of days via email.
If you've ever read the book, Launch,
that takes a similar approach using email.
And it's basically taking the principles
of long form marketing and
spreading it over a number of days
via email to achieve the same result.
If I was on my own computer I could
actually show you a landing page that I've
created with that, but
unfortunately it's not available
on this machine unfortunately.
But yeah it's got its place, but if you're
gonna go long form then it's really,
really important to make it scannable,
which leads nicely into the next section
we're gonna look at which is design.